He changed our lives. Steve Jobs had a vision. It's like the world lost to John Lennon. He demanded perfection. He could rip into people, be tough to work for, and led a technological revolution. The personal computer. A light bulb goes off, and he says, Wow, I can put computers on every desktop.

The iPod. When they first came out, people were like, oh my God, they're so sleek, they're so sexy. It was new. It was small. I had to have it. The iPhone, I have an iPhone, which is an extension of me, and I love using the iPad. People didn't know they wanted it or needed it, and it turned out they did. It's kinda like, well, we're gonna make a portable music player.

I need that. We're gonna make a phone. I need that. We're gonna make a toaster. I need that.

I genius now, Steve.

Do you have to be a difficult person, a tough person, to be a genius? I don't know the answer to that. He was very dictatorial. He was very clever. He had a very clear sense of his own gut, his own instinct. He was abrasive, he was brash, he thought he knew everything. But the products he created were not elitist, even though they were super cool.

All around the world, people love these products. What did Frank Perdue say? It takes a tough man to make a tender bird?

Say what you want, but Steve Jobs was the guy who envisioned a computer on every desk. An earbud in every ear, and a device that would take multitasking to a whole new level. He didn't just envision, he made it happen. And he is calling it iPhone. He was about humanizing technology in a way that made it extraordinarily easy, intuitive, and an absolute joy and pleasure to use.

His gut instinct was his genius, and it's absolutely unteachable. Genius is not about making complicated things. It's about making complicated things very simple. Making things simple and beautiful. That was the genius of Steve Jobs from the very start. He was born in 1955 to a pair of unmarried graduate students, intellectuals, who put him up for adoption.

He grew up with a loving working class couple in California's Silicon Valley. Just like Harry Potter, Steve Jobs realized that he was a wizard, even though he was being raised by muggles. He was a hybrid. One part geek, one part hippie. It was the 60s. When he was a teenager, he met a fellow techie. A hacker named Steve Wozniak.

They whiled away the hours tinkering with electronics in the Jobs house. In 1972, Jobs headed up to Oregon, where he attended a small liberal arts college. He turned on, tuned in, and dropped out. He listened to the Beatles and Bob Dylan. Took LSD. Went to India. When he returned to Silicon Valley in 1975, it was the dawn of the computer age, and Steve Jobs had a vision.

The very first Steve Jobs computer was actually the brainchild of his friend, Steve Wozniak. Woz did the wiring, Jobs did the dreaming. And behold, the Apple I. No power supply, no casing, just a beginning. Jobs imagined a machine for the people, and he sensed he was the man to make it happen. The two Steves found an investor, and formed Apple Computer, Inc.

The name Apple, the friendly shape, the friendly advertising we did, as Steve was a genius at marketing, that it helped bring this whole category of device to the world. Apple I morphed into Apple II, which went further. It was faster. It had text display, color graphics, and its own plastic casing. It was the first personal computer that a human being, a normal human being, a non technically oriented human being could use.

I think Steve Jobs knew that he was onto something big. Real big. But the revolution was about to be sparked on the tail of something quite small. The mouse. It was so simple. Jobs didn't invent it, he reinvented it. Reinventing, making stuff better, would become his career long M.O.. Meanwhile, Apple II sales are robust.

The company goes public in 1980, and Steve Jobs... is suddenly worth $200 million. Hadn't happened before for a 25 year old to be worth hundreds of millions of dollars when he was still young. He was dashingly good looking. He was this new symbol of entrepreneurship.
